Skip to content Discover the latest MyICAEW app for ACA students and members, available to download now. Find out more ICAEW.com works better with JavaScript enabled. Home Membership Benefits of membership Becoming a member Continuing Professional Development (CPD) Fees and subscriptions Membership administration Membership regulations Offers and discounts Support throughout your career Membership Member Research 2026 Tell us what membership means to you and what you’d like to see from us in the future. Your feedback will help shape our member value proposition. Have your say Benefits of membership Gain access to world-leading information resources, guidance and local networks. Visit Benefits of membership Becoming a member 98% of the best global brands rely on ICAEW Chartered Accountants. Visit Becoming a member Pay fees and subscriptions Your membership subscription enables ICAEW to provide support to members. Fees and subscriptions BenefitsPlus - savings for members Enjoy access to exclusive professional resources plus savings on travel, fashion, cars and more. Offers and discounts Support throughout your career Information and resources for every stage of your career. Support throughout your career Membership Becoming a member From software start-ups to high-flying airlines and high street banks, 98% of the best global brands rely on ICAEW Chartered Accountants. A career as an ICAEW Chartered Accountant means the opportunity to work in any organisation, in any sector, whatever your ambitions. Becoming a member Routes to the ACA ACA students membership application Join as a member of another body Membership Continuing Professional Development (CPD) Continuing Professional Development (CPD) is an integral part of being a successful ICAEW Chartered Accountant. CPD home Your guide to CPD CPD resource showcase Firms' guide to CPD Online CPD record CPD FAQs Membership Fees and subscriptions Everything you need to know about ICAEW annual membership fees, community and faculty subscriptions, eligibility for reduced rates and details of how you can pay. Pay fees and subscriptions How much are membership fees? How to pay your fees Receipts and invoices What if my circumstances have changed? Difficulties in making changes to your membership Faculty and community subscription fees Membership Membership administration Welcome to the ICAEW members area: your portal to members'-only content, offers, discounts, regulations and membership information. Updating your details Complete annual return Promoting myself as an ICAEW member Verification of ICAEW membership Become a life member Become a fellow Request a new certificate Report the death of a member Membership Membership regulations Members are required to supply certain information to the members’ registrar and to pay annual fees and subscriptions. These matters are governed by regulations. Practising certificates Advancement to fellowship regulations Regulations relating to membership cessation, readmission and resignation ICAEW's guide to directors' duties and responsibilities Information to be supplied by members Payment of annual subscription Power to change subscription fees Membership Support throughout your career Information and resources for every stage of your career. New members Career progression Career Breakers Volunteering at schools and universities Retirement Technical and ethics support ICAEW Member App Find a job Working internationally Self employment Become a fellow Become a life member Support Members Scheme CABA Learn ACA Employers Apprenticeships in accountancy A-Z of CPD courses by topic CPD guidance and help ICAEW CFAB ICAEW Business and Finance Professional (BFP) ICAEW flagship events Leadership Development Programmes Partners in Learning Specialist Qualifications and E-Learning Team training Learn ACA The ICAEW Chartered Accountant qualification, the ACA, is one of the most advanced learning and professional development programmes available. It is valued around the world in business, practice and the public sector. How to become an ICAEW Chartered Accountant ACA for employers Discover how your organisation can attract and train the best accountancy talent, how to become authorised to offer ACA training and the support on offer if you are already providing training. Visit our employers hub Digital learning materials via BibliU All ACA, CFAB and Level 4 apprenticeship learning materials are now digital only. Read our guide on how to access your learning materials on the ICAEW Bookshelf using the BibliU app or through your browser. Your learning materials Take a look at ICAEW training films Focusing on professional scepticism, ethics and everyday business challenges, our training films are used by firms and companies around the world to support their in-house training and business development teams. ICAEW training films Learn ACA The ICAEW Chartered Accountant qualification, the ACA, is one of the most advanced learning and professional development programmes available. It is valued around the world in business, practice and the public sector. How to become an ICAEW Chartered Accountant Routes to the ACA Register as a student Train as a member of another body Start your career More about ACA and chartered accountancy Learn Employers Attract and retain the next generation of accounting and finance professionals with our world-leading accountancy qualifications. Become authorised to offer ACA training and help your business stay ahead. Employers How ACA training works Become a training employer Access the training file Why choose the ACA Training routes Employer support hub Get in touch Learn CPD guidance and help Continuing Professional Development (CPD) is an integral part of being a successful ICAEW Chartered Accountant. Find support on ICAEW's CPD requirements and access resources to help your professional development. Continuing Professional Development (CPD) Your guide to CPD Firms' guide to CPD CPD resource showcase Learn ICAEW flagship events ICAEW boasts an extensive portfolio of industry-leading conferences. These flagship events offer the opportunity to hear from and interact with all the key players in the industry. Find out what's coming up. ICAEW Annual Conference Crypto and Digital Assets Conference Farming Rural & Business Conference Global Ethics Day 2026 Internal Audit Conference Solicitors Conference Valuation Conference All our flagship events Learn Leadership Development Programmes ICAEW Academy’s in-depth leadership development programmes take a holistic approach to combine insightful mentoring or coaching, to exclusive events, peer learning groups and workshops. Catering for those significant transitions in your career, these leadership development programmes are instrumental to achieving your ambitions or fulfilling your succession planning goals. Financial Talent Executive Network (F-TEN®) Developing Leadership in Practice (DLiP™) Network of Finance Leaders (NFL) Women in Leadership (WiL) Mentoring and coaching Learn Specialist Qualifications and E-Learning Whatever future path you choose, ICAEW will support the development and acceleration of your career at each stage to enhance your career. A-Z of CPD courses by topic Corporate Finance Qualification Diploma in Charity Accounting ICAEW Certificate in Insolvency Financial Modeling Institute’s Advanced Financial Modeler Accreditation ICAEW GenAI Accelerator Programme ICAEW Sustainability Accelerator Programme All specialist qualifications Careers Start your career Qualified ACA careers Voluntary roles Support Vacancies at ICAEW ICAEW boards and committees Careers Why a career in chartered accountancy? Becoming an ICAEW Chartered Accountant opens doors to diverse career opportunities across various sectors and industries globally, offering prestige and recognition. Why chartered accountancy Search for qualified ACA jobs Matching highly skilled ICAEW members with attractive organisations seeking talented accountancy and finance professionals. Search ACA jobs now Volunteering roles Helping chartered accountants give back and strengthen not-for-profit sector with currently over 2,300 organisations posting a variety of volunteering roles with ICAEW. Search for volunteer roles Get ahead by volunteering Advertise with ICAEW From as little as £495, access to a pool of highly qualified and ambitious ACA qualified members with searchable CVs. Visit our recruitment site Careers Start your career Explore a career that opens doors into any industry and where your passions are. ICAEW Chartered Accountants are supporting economies, businesses and initiatives worldwide. Want to join the ICAEW Community? Start your career Why become an ICAEW Chartered Accountant? How to become an ICAEW Chartered Accountant Start your training Launch your professional journey Careers Qualified ACA careers Find Accountancy and Finance Jobs Job search Job alerts Search employers Blogs Events Support throughout your career Careers Voluntary roles Find Voluntary roles Find a role Role alerts Organisations News and advice ICAEW Volunteering Hub Careers Support While you pursue the most interesting and rewarding opportunities at every stage of your career, we’re here to offer you support whatever stage you are or wherever you are in the world and in whichever sector you have chosen to work. Support throughout your career Continuing Professional Development (CPD) Blogs Events Start your career Students Getting started Training Exams Managing your studies Student support and benefits Student Insights Students My online training file As a registered ACA student, you can access your training file to log your progress. Access your training file All about your online training file Book an exam Apply for ACA or ICAEW CFAB exams. Book an exam Exam resources Here are some resources you will find useful while you study for the ACA qualification. View exam resources Digital learning materials All ACA learning materials are now digital only. Read our guide on how to access your learning materials on the ICAEW Bookshelf via the BibliU app, or through your browser. Find out about BIbliu and the ICAEW Bookshelf Student Insights Fresh insights, innovative ideas and an inside look at the lives and careers of our ICAEW students and members. Read the latest articles for students Students Training ICAEW Chartered Accountants are known as authentic, inclusive and resilient leaders who can think critically, communicate risks and embrace change. Your ACA training will provide you with the skills and experience required to excel in the modern workplace. Training file Six-monthly reviews Skills Experience Training agreement Specialised Learning Ethics and professional scepticism Technology Hub Students Exams Here is everything you need to plan, book and pass your exams. Book an exam Credit for prior learning (CPL) Exam results Exam resources Dates and deadlines Exam system status Technical guidance and news News Country resources Industries and sectors Audit and Assurance Business Corporate Finance Corporate governance Corporate reporting Economy Financial Services Practice resources Public Sector Sustainability and climate change Tax Technology Trust & Ethics Technical guidance and news News News, opinion, analysis, podcasts and videos on the key issues affecting accountancy and the world of business. Find out more Technical Advisory Services helpsheets Practical, technical and ethical guidance highlighting the most important issues for members, whether in practice or in business. View our helpsheets Technical releases ICAEW Technical Releases are a source of good practice guidance on technical and practice issues. ICAEW Technical Releases Thought leadership Our Thought Leadership reports give clarity and insight on the challenges facing the accountancy profession. Our charitable trusts provide funding for academic research into accountancy. Thought leadership Academic research funding Bloomsbury – free for eligible firms In partnership with Bloomsbury Professional, ICAEW have provided eligible firms with free access to Bloomsbury’s comprehensive online library of around 80 leading tax and accounting resources. Bloomsbury Accounting and Tax Service Technical guidance and news News Up-to-date coverage of all that is happening in the worlds of accountancy and finance. News home Latest news Tax news Podcasts Videos Chart of the week News specials Sign up for news alerts Technical guidance and news Country resources Our resources by country provide access to intelligence on over 170 countries and territories including economic forecasts, guides to doing business and information on the tax climate in each jurisdiction. A to Z Africa Asia Caribbean Europe Greater China Latin America Middle East North America Oceania Russia and Eurasia South Asia Southeast Asia Technical guidance and news Industries and sectors Thought leadership, technical resources and professional guidance to support the professional development of members working in specific industries and sectors. Charity Community Construction & Real Estate Energy & Natural Resources Community Farming & Rural Business Community Forensic & Expert Witness Global Trade Community Healthcare Community Insolvency Internal Audit Community Manufacturing Community Media & Leisure Portfolio Careers Community Retail Small and Micro Business Community Small Practitioners Community Solicitors Travel, Tourism & Hospitality Community Valuation Community Technical guidance and news Audit and Assurance View a range of practical resources on auditing and assurance, arranged by theme, including ISA specific guidance, subject area and sector specific assurance. Audit Assurance Audit and corporate governance reform Professional judgement Practising Auditor Competency Framework Regulation and working in audit Internal audit resource centre ICAEW acting on audit quality Technical guidance and news Business The most up-to-date thought leadership, insights, technical resources and professional guidance to support ICAEW members working in and with industry with their professional development. Everything business Latest Business news from Insights Strategy, risk and innovation Business performance management Financial management Finance transformation Economy and business environment Leadership, personal development and HR Small and Micro Business Community Webinars and publications Technical guidance and news Corporate Finance Companies, advisers and investors making decisions about creating, developing and acquiring businesses – and the wide range of advisory careers that require this specialist professional expertise. Corporate Finance home Business restructuring Business Finance Guide Capital markets and investment Corporate finance careers Debt advisory and growth finance Infrastructure and project finance Lead advisory Private equity Start-ups, scale-ups and venture capital Transaction services Valuation Community Technical guidance and news Corporate governance Corporate governance is the system by which companies are directed and controlled. Find out more about corporate governance principles, codes and reports, Board subcommittees, roles and responsibilities and shareholder relations. Corporate governance A-Z of CPD courses by topic Board committees and board effectiveness Corporate governance codes and reports Corporate Governance Community Principles of corporate governance Roles, duties and responsibilities of Board members Stewardship and stakeholder relations The new boardroom agenda Technical guidance and news Corporate reporting View a range of practical resources on UK GAAP, IFRS, UK regulation for company accounts and non-financial reporting. Plus find out more about the ICAEW Corporate Reporting Faculty. Corporate reporting resources UK GAAP Small and micro entity reporting IFRS Accounting Standards UK Regulation for Company Accounts Non-financial reporting Improving Corporate Reporting Technical guidance and news Economy Expert analysis on the latest national and international economic issues and trends, and interviews with prominent voices across the finance industry, alongside data on the state of the economy. Economy home ICAEW Business Confidence Monitor Autumn Budget 2026 Autumn Budget 2025 Spring Statement 2025 Economy explainers Energy crisis How the government can enable growth Inflation Resilience and Renewal: Building an economy fit for the future Social mobility and inclusion Technical guidance and news Financial Services View articles and resources on the financial services sector. Financial Services Financial services - reporting and assurance Financial services - risk and regulation Financial services - sustainability Financial services - technology and digital assets Technical guidance and news Practice resources For ICAEW's members in practice, this area brings together the most up-to-date thought leadership, technical resources and professional guidance to help you in your professional life. Practice resources Start your own practice Run and grow your practice Supporting your clients Regulation Practice technology TAS helpsheets Bloomsbury Accounting and Tax Service Small Practitioners Community Support for business advisers Join ICAEW BAS Technical guidance and news Public Sector Many ICAEW members work in or with the public sector to deliver public priorities and strong public finances. ICAEW acts in the public interest to support strong financial leadership and better financial management across the public sector – featuring transparency, accountability, governance and ethics – to ensure that public money is spent wisely and that public finances are sustainable. Public Sector hub Public Sector Audit and Assurance Public Sector Finances Public Sector Financial Management Public Sector Financial Reporting Public Sector Learning & Development Public Sector Community Latest public sector articles from Insights Technical guidance and news Sustainability and climate change Sustainability describes a world that does not live by eating into its capital, whether natural, economic or social. Members in practice, in business and private individuals all have a role to play if sustainability goals are to be met. The work being undertaken by ICAEW in this area is to change behaviour to drive sustainable outcomes. Sustainability and climate change home Climate hub Sustainable Development Goals Accountability Modern slavery Finance for the Future Awards Resources collection Sustainability Committee Sustainability & Climate Change community Technical guidance and news Tax The Tax area has information and guidance on technical and practical tax matters, with links to events, the latest tax news and the Faculty’s publications, including helpsheets, webinars and tax representations. TAX HOME Budgets and legislation Business tax Employment taxes Making Tax Digital Personal tax Tax administration Tax compliance and investigation Tax Faculty Tax reform UK tax rates, allowances and reliefs VAT Working in tax Technical guidance and news Technology Keep up-to-date with tech issues and developments, including artificial intelligence (AI), blockchain, big data, and cyber security. Artificial intelligence Blockchain and cryptoassets Cyber security Data Data Analytics Community Digital skills Excel Community Technology and the profession Webinars and publications Technical guidance and news Trust & Ethics Guidance and resources on key issues, including economic crime, business law, better regulation and ethics. Read through ICAEW’s Code of Ethics and supporting information. Trust & Ethics home Anti-money laundering law and guidance Better regulation Business Law UK company law Data protection and privacy Economic crime Ethics Help with ethical problems ICAEW Code of Ethics Solicitors Community Forensic & Expert Witness Community Latest articles on business law, trust and ethics Communities Faculties Communities by industry / sector Communities by life stage and workplace Communities by professional specialism Local groups and societies Worldwide support and services Communities ICAEW Communities Resources and networking opportunities on industry sectors, professional specialisms and at various stages of your career. Free for ICAEW members and students. Discover a new community ICAEW Faculties The accountancy profession is facing change and uncertainty. The ICAEW Faculties can help by providing you with timely and relevant support. Choose to join any of the faculties UK groups and societies We have teams on the ground in: East of England, the Midlands, London and South East, Northern, South West, Yorkshire and Humberside, Wales and Scotland. UK Regions Worldwide support and services Support and services we offer our members in Africa, America, Canada, the Caribbean, Europe, Greater China, the Middle East, Oceania and South East Asia. Discover our worldwide services Communities Faculties ICAEW Faculties are 'centres of technical excellence', strongly committed to enhancing your professional development and helping you to meet your CPD requirements every year. They offer exclusive content, events and webinars, customised for your sector - which you should be able to easily record, when the time comes for the completion of your CPD declaration. Our offering isn't exclusive to Institute members. As a faculty member, the same resources are available to you to ensure you stay ahead of the competition. Audit and Assurance Faculty Corporate Finance Faculty Corporate Reporting Faculty Financial Services Faculty Tax Faculty Communities Communities by industry / sector Academia & Education Community Charity Community Construction & Real Estate Community Energy & Natural Resources Community Entertainment, Sport & Media Community Farming & Rural Business Community Global Trade Community Healthcare Community Manufacturing Community Public Sector Community Retail Community Solicitors Community Travel, Tourism & Hospitality Community Communities Communities by life stage and workplace Black Members Community Career Breakers Community Diversity & Inclusion Community New members Retirement Women in Finance Community Communities Communities by professional specialism Corporate Governance Community Data Analytics Community Excel Community Forensic & Expert Witness Community Internal Audit Community Personal Financial Planning Community Portfolio Careers Community Restructuring & Insolvency Community Small and Micro Business Community Small Practitioners Community Sustainability and Climate Change Community Valuation Community Communities Local groups and societies We aim to support you wherever in the world you work. Our regional offices and network of volunteers run events and provide access to local accounting updates in major finance centres around the globe. UK Regions Crown Dependencies East of England London Midlands Northern Ireland North East North West Scotland South East South West Wales Yorkshire and the Humber Regulation ICAEW codes and regulations Professional conduct and complaints Statutory regulated services overseen by ICAEW Regulations for ICAEW practice members and firms Additional guidance and support Regulation ICAEW Regulation Access ICAEW regulations, codes and the statutory regulations that our members, firms, students and affiliates must abide by. Codes, regulations, complaints and support Regulatory News View the latest regulatory updates and guidance and subscribe to our monthly newsletter, Regulatory & Conduct News. Regulatory news Regulatory Consultations Strengthening trust in the profession Our role as a regulator is to strengthen trust and protect the public. We do this by enabling, evaluating and enforcing the highest standards in the profession. Regulation and Conduct strategy Regulatory applications Find out how you can become authorised by ICAEW as a regulated firm. How to become an ICAEW regulated firm Regulation ICAEW codes and regulations Charter and Bye-laws Archive of complaints processes and ICAEW regulations Membership regulations Qualifications regulations Training and education regulations Regulation Professional conduct and complaints How to make a complaint Guidance on your duty to report misconduct Archive of complaints processes and ICAEW regulations Public hearings What to do if you receive a complaint against you Regulation Statutory regulated services overseen by ICAEW Anti-money laundering supervision Working in the regulated area of audit Local public audit in England Probate services Insolvency Designated Professional Body (Investment Business) licence Consumer credit Quality Assurance monitoring: view from the firms Regulation Regulations for ICAEW practice members and firms The ICAEW Practice Assurance scheme Anti-money laundering supervision Licensed Practice scheme Professional Indemnity Insurance (PII) Clients' Money Regulations Taxation (PCRT) Regulations Regulation Additional guidance and support Practice resources ICAEW training films caba Helpsheets and guidance by topic ICAEW Regulation and Conduct 2030 Strategy Policy and research All policy and research Business Confidence Monitor Campaigns Consultations and representations Economic updates Evolution of mid-tier accountancy firms Thought leadership Academic research, funding and reporting Policy and research UK Business Confidence Monitor: National Read the latest results of our Business Confidence Monitor. ICAEW's flagship research programme. Full BCM results Economic Update: Middle East ICAEW offers a quarterly economic forecast for the region prepared directly for the finance profession. Our Middle East analysis Priorities for the next Scottish parliament Members in Scotland share what should be key economic priorities for the future. Our recommendations for Scotland Priorities for the next Welsh government ICAEW outlines members' priorities for the Welsh government. Our recommendations for Wales Policy and research Business Confidence Monitor UK national results UK regional and sectoral results Policy and research Campaigns Tax reform Acting on audit quality How the government can enable growth How to fix VAT Policy and research Economic updates Mainland China and South-East Asia Middle East UK Search Contact us Helplines and support Library and research service Help finding ICAEW publications and other material Find a Chartered Accountant Search our official online directory Home Home Membership Benefits of membership Becoming a member Becoming a member Routes to the ACA ACA students membership application Join as a member of another body Continuing Professional Development (CPD) CPD home Your guide to CPD CPD resource showcase Firms' guide to CPD Online CPD record CPD FAQs Fees and subscriptions Pay fees and subscriptions How much are membership fees? How to pay your fees Receipts and invoices What if my circumstances have changed? Difficulties in making changes to your membership Faculty and community subscription fees Membership administration Updating your details Complete annual return Promoting myself as an ICAEW member Verification of ICAEW membership Become a life member Become a fellow Request a new certificate Report the death of a member Membership regulations Practising certificates Advancement to fellowship regulations Regulations relating to membership cessation, readmission and resignation ICAEW's guide to directors' duties and responsibilities Information to be supplied by members Payment of annual subscription Power to change subscription fees Offers and discounts Support throughout your career New members Career progression Career Breakers Volunteering at schools and universities Retirement Technical and ethics support ICAEW Member App Find a job Working internationally Self employment Become a fellow Become a life member Support Members Scheme CABA Learn ACA How to become an ICAEW Chartered Accountant Routes to the ACA Register as a student Train as a member of another body Start your career More about ACA and chartered accountancy Employers Employers How ACA training works Become a training employer Access the training file Why choose the ACA Training routes Employer support hub Get in touch Apprenticeships in accountancy A-Z of CPD courses by topic CPD guidance and help Continuing Professional Development (CPD) Your guide to CPD Firms' guide to CPD CPD resource showcase ICAEW CFAB ICAEW Business and Finance Professional (BFP) ICAEW flagship events ICAEW Annual Conference Crypto and Digital Assets Conference Farming Rural & Business Conference Global Ethics Day 2026 Internal Audit Conference Solicitors Conference Valuation Conference All our flagship events Leadership Development Programmes Financial Talent Executive Network (F-TEN®) Developing Leadership in Practice (DLiP™) Network of Finance Leaders (NFL) Women in Leadership (WiL) Mentoring and coaching Partners in Learning Specialist Qualifications and E-Learning A-Z of CPD courses by topic Corporate Finance Qualification Diploma in Charity Accounting ICAEW Certificate in Insolvency Financial Modeling Institute’s Advanced Financial Modeler Accreditation ICAEW GenAI Accelerator Programme ICAEW Sustainability Accelerator Programme All specialist qualifications Team training Careers Start your career Start your career Why become an ICAEW Chartered Accountant? How to become an ICAEW Chartered Accountant Start your training Launch your professional journey Qualified ACA careers Job search Job alerts Search employers Blogs Events Support throughout your career Voluntary roles Find a role Role alerts Organisations News and advice ICAEW Volunteering Hub Support Support throughout your career Continuing Professional Development (CPD) Blogs Events Start your career Vacancies at ICAEW ICAEW boards and committees Students Getting started Training Training file Six-monthly reviews Skills Experience Training agreement Specialised Learning Ethics and professional scepticism Technology Hub Exams Book an exam Credit for prior learning (CPL) Exam results Exam resources Dates and deadlines Exam system status Managing your studies Student support and benefits Student Insights Technical guidance and news News News home Latest news Tax news Podcasts Videos Chart of the week News specials Sign up for news alerts Country resources A to Z Africa Asia Caribbean Europe Greater China Latin America Middle East North America Oceania Russia and Eurasia South Asia Southeast Asia Industries and sectors Charity Community Construction & Real Estate Energy & Natural Resources Community Farming & Rural Business Community Forensic & Expert Witness Global Trade Community Healthcare Community Insolvency Internal Audit Community Manufacturing Community Media & Leisure Portfolio Careers Community Retail Small and Micro Business Community Small Practitioners Community Solicitors Travel, Tourism & Hospitality Community Valuation Community Audit and Assurance Audit Assurance Audit and corporate governance reform Professional judgement Practising Auditor Competency Framework Regulation and working in audit Internal audit resource centre ICAEW acting on audit quality Business Everything business Latest Business news from Insights Strategy, risk and innovation Business performance management Financial management Finance transformation Economy and business environment Leadership, personal development and HR Small and Micro Business Community Webinars and publications Corporate Finance Corporate Finance home Business restructuring Business Finance Guide Capital markets and investment Corporate finance careers Debt advisory and growth finance Infrastructure and project finance Lead advisory Private equity Start-ups, scale-ups and venture capital Transaction services Valuation Community Corporate governance Corporate governance A-Z of CPD courses by topic Board committees and board effectiveness Corporate governance codes and reports Corporate Governance Community Principles of corporate governance Roles, duties and responsibilities of Board members Stewardship and stakeholder relations The new boardroom agenda Corporate reporting Corporate reporting resources UK GAAP Small and micro entity reporting IFRS Accounting Standards UK Regulation for Company Accounts Non-financial reporting Improving Corporate Reporting Economy Economy home ICAEW Business Confidence Monitor Autumn Budget 2026 Autumn Budget 2025 Spring Statement 2025 Economy explainers Energy crisis How the government can enable growth Inflation Resilience and Renewal: Building an economy fit for the future Social mobility and inclusion Financial Services Financial Services Financial services - reporting and assurance Financial services - risk and regulation Financial services - sustainability Financial services - technology and digital assets Practice resources Practice resources Start your own practice Run and grow your practice Supporting your clients Regulation Practice technology TAS helpsheets Bloomsbury Accounting and Tax Service Small Practitioners Community Support for business advisers Join ICAEW BAS Public Sector Public Sector hub Public Sector Audit and Assurance Public Sector Finances Public Sector Financial Management Public Sector Financial Reporting Public Sector Learning & Development Public Sector Community Latest public sector articles from Insights Sustainability and climate change Sustainability and climate change home Climate hub Sustainable Development Goals Accountability Modern slavery Finance for the Future Awards Resources collection Sustainability Committee Sustainability & Climate Change community Tax TAX HOME Budgets and legislation Business tax Employment taxes Making Tax Digital Personal tax Tax administration Tax compliance and investigation Tax Faculty Tax reform UK tax rates, allowances and reliefs VAT Working in tax Technology Artificial intelligence Blockchain and cryptoassets Cyber security Data Data Analytics Community Digital skills Excel Community Technology and the profession Webinars and publications Trust & Ethics Trust & Ethics home Anti-money laundering law and guidance Better regulation Business Law UK company law Data protection and privacy Economic crime Ethics Help with ethical problems ICAEW Code of Ethics Solicitors Community Forensic & Expert Witness Community Latest articles on business law, trust and ethics Communities Faculties Audit and Assurance Faculty Corporate Finance Faculty Corporate Reporting Faculty Financial Services Faculty Tax Faculty Communities by industry / sector Academia & Education Community Charity Community Construction & Real Estate Community Energy & Natural Resources Community Entertainment, Sport & Media Community Farming & Rural Business Community Global Trade Community Healthcare Community Manufacturing Community Public Sector Community Retail Community Solicitors Community Travel, Tourism & Hospitality Community Communities by life stage and workplace Black Members Community Career Breakers Community Diversity & Inclusion Community New members Retirement Women in Finance Community Communities by professional specialism Corporate Governance Community Data Analytics Community Excel Community Forensic & Expert Witness Community Internal Audit Community Personal Financial Planning Community Portfolio Careers Community Restructuring & Insolvency Community Small and Micro Business Community Small Practitioners Community Sustainability and Climate Change Community Valuation Community Local groups and societies UK Regions Crown Dependencies East of England London Midlands Northern Ireland North East North West Scotland South East South West Wales Yorkshire and the Humber Worldwide support and services Regulation ICAEW codes and regulations Charter and Bye-laws Archive of complaints processes and ICAEW regulations Membership regulations Qualifications regulations Training and education regulations Professional conduct and complaints How to make a complaint Guidance on your duty to report misconduct Archive of complaints processes and ICAEW regulations Public hearings What to do if you receive a complaint against you Statutory regulated services overseen by ICAEW Anti-money laundering supervision Working in the regulated area of audit Local public audit in England Probate services Insolvency Designated Professional Body (Investment Business) licence Consumer credit Quality Assurance monitoring: view from the firms Regulations for ICAEW practice members and firms The ICAEW Practice Assurance scheme Anti-money laundering supervision Licensed Practice scheme Professional Indemnity Insurance (PII) Clients' Money Regulations Taxation (PCRT) Regulations Additional guidance and support Practice resources ICAEW training films caba Helpsheets and guidance by topic ICAEW Regulation and Conduct 2030 Strategy Policy and research All policy and research Business Confidence Monitor UK national results UK regional and sectoral results Campaigns Tax reform Acting on audit quality How the government can enable growth How to fix VAT Consultations and representations Economic updates Mainland China and South-East Asia Middle East UK Evolution of mid-tier accountancy firms Thought leadership Academic research, funding and reporting Home Technical guidance and news Technology Blockchain and cryptoassets Blockchain and cryptoassets helpsheets Considerations for auditing cryptocurrencies Considerations for auditing cryptocurrencies What are the considerations for auditing cryptocurrencies? We highlight some common risks as well as possible procedures to address them. Contents Ethical considerations Risk assessment Specific risks Next steps Cryptocurrencies are some of the most frequently encountered crypto assets and this publication focuses on the audit of entities that hold (directly or through a custodian) and/or trade them, provide cryptocurrency exchange services, or are exposed to them indirectly, for example by holding related exchange-traded funds (ETFs). Due to their unique nature, cryptocurrencies can present novel challenges for auditors. Whilst risks such as valuation and existence that auditors may be already be familiar with apply to cryptocurrencies, the underlying blockchain technology and its distinctive characteristics affect the nature of risks and the type of evidence gathered. The publication is not a comprehensive guide but aims to introduce key concepts, ethical considerations, and common risks associated with auditing cryptocurrencies. Ethical considerations Ethical considerations are crucial in any audit. Auditors keep in mind relevant ethical considerations, including those defined in the Financial Reporting Council (FRC)’s Ethical Standard and the International Ethics Standards Board of Accountants’ Code of Ethics (IESBA Code). The five key principles include: integrity; objectivity; professional competence; due care; confidentiality; and professional behaviour. Professional competence is particularly important when accepting and conducting an audit of an entity involved in the fast-evolving world of cryptocurrencies because such assets can be difficult to account for and audit. They also require knowledge of technical concepts such as blockchains. Objectivity may also be a challenge if the audit firm is engaged to perform any non-audit cryptocurrency-related work, such as valuation work, in addition to the financial statement audit. A self-review threat arises if auditors intend to use that work when forming a judgment relevant to the audit engagement. The identification of ethical risks and relevant mitigations are commonly achieved through a firm's quality management processes and are the responsibility of the firm’s ethics partner. Risk assessment Auditors aim to understand the entity’s IT and business environments including its cryptocurrency strategy, operations, internal controls, and its role in the cryptocurrency ecosystem. Enquiries auditors may make of management to better understand the entity and its environment include: the entity’s motive for holding and transacting in cryptocurrencies; the types of assets held, acquisition methods, and safeguarding controls; use of third-party custodians and their control systems; types of wallets used and management controls for wallet access and key generation; nature, frequency, volume, and value of cryptocurrency transactions; and reflection of on- and off-chain transactions in the entity’s books and records. Entity’s risk assessment It is necessary for management to be able to identify the unique risks posed by cryptocurrencies, including the entity’s susceptibility to fraud and accounting for related party relationships and transactions. Management should also implement appropriate processes and controls to prevent, detect and mitigate such risks. Enquiries auditors may make of management and other relevant parties to better understand the entity’s risk assessment process include, but are not limited to processes relating to: identifying and mitigating risks related to cryptocurrencies; ensuring due diligence and anti-money laundering checks are performed on counterparties; compliance with legal and regulatory frameworks; identifying new risks from changes in laws, regulations, and blockchain technology; identifying related-party transactions on the blockchain; and monitoring the effectiveness of relevant third parties’ internal controls. Another consideration when assessing the robustness of management’s risk assessment process is that, even when management possesses an appropriate level of technical capability in cryptocurrency technologies, competence may not necessarily indicate that they are equally capable in relation to financial reporting. Wider Processes and Controls Auditors understand the entity’s processes and controls related to cryptocurrency transactions, focusing on: authorisation of transactions and counterparty identification; monitoring cryptocurrency transactions on the blockchain; assessing the reliability of blockchain records and extraction strategies; and determining appropriate classification, size, and cut-off for transactions. The decentralised nature of blockchain means that cryptocurrency transactions are not necessarily restricted to normal business hours and can vary in the speed at which they are processed. Careful consideration of potential cut-off issues is warranted. Management enquiries to aid auditors’ knowledge may consist of the following. Reliability and integrity: How does the entity ensure the reliability, integrity, and availability of blockchain information. Accuracy in reconciliations: Methods used by management to confirm accuracy in cryptocurrency reconciliations. Controls for data completeness and accuracy: Controls in place to ensure the completeness and accuracy of data used in reconciliations. Recording transactions: How cryptocurrency transactions and balances are recorded in the entity’s books. Third-party information: Verification of information acquired from third parties when transactions are not processed on a blockchain. Public addresses control: Volume of public addresses controlled by the entity and the dispersion of cryptocurrency balances among those addresses. Transaction authorisation: Validation that each transaction is authorised by an appropriate individual. Security breaches: Detection of security breaches that could compromise the entity’s keys. Data extraction tools: Tools used to extract transactions and balances from relevant blockchains. Blockchain reliability: Consideration of the reliability of each blockchain and the chosen data-extraction tools. Point-in-time balance: Challenges in determining a point-in-time balance, especially with privacy coins. Related-party transactions: Identification of related-party transactions on the blockchain, as clarified by ISA (UK) 550 Related Parties. Safeguarding Ownership and control of private keys are crucial for confirming cryptocurrency ownership. Methods of safeguarding private keys can include multi-signature addresses, encryption, key generation security, and physical security of key storage facilities. Auditors also consider management’s assessment of fraud risks, including misappropriation of cryptocurrencies and undisclosed related-party transactions. Relevant information for auditors to consider include information about the initial key-generation process, backups, access to perform transactions, and segregation of duties. Cryptocurrencies held on behalf of clients Entities holding cryptocurrencies for clients need processes to: track client balances separately from their own; onboard new clients; authorise and monitor transactions; and ensure sufficient cryptocurrencies are held to meet client obligations. Cryptocurrencies held via third parties Auditors understand how entities using third-party custodians ensure these custodians have appropriate controls. In obtaining an understanding of controls implemented by the entity over third parties, auditors may consider the entity’s processes for: initiating and authorising transactions with third parties; recording and reconciling transactions in the entity’s records; validating third-party control over cryptocurrencies, especially when commingled; and monitoring the effectiveness of third-party controls, including the third-party’s controls for conducting risk assessments of clients. This risk assessment process helps auditors identify and address potential material misstatements in the financial statements of entities involved in the cryptocurrency ecosystem. Read more about risk assessments Specific risks Here we explores in further detail some of the common risks related to cryptocurrencies. Onboarding In making a client acceptance decision, the flowing factors are considered: Risk management - Risks are considered both when onboarding new entities, and for existing audit clients that have become holders of cryptocurrency. They are also considered for entities – whether existing clients or new – that are dealing with cryptocurrencies without 'touching' them, for example, through net settling in cash. Auditor competencies and skillsets – The audit firm considers whether it has the necessary experience and internal structures, and whether its engagement teams have the competence and capabilities to understand blockchain technology, and assess risks of material misstatement. This includes knowledge of cryptocurrencies, the entity’s use of them and the relevant IT systems. Management’s competence and responsibility - Auditors assess whether the entity’s management has the skills to maintain adequate controls and records and can prepare financial statements. This is crucial due to the complexity of blockchain technology and the unique risks associated with cryptocurrencies. Management’s integrity and ethical values - Auditors consider the integrity and ethical values of management, especially given the potential for cryptocurrencies to facilitate criminal activities, including financing terrorism and money laundering. This includes assessing management’s reputation and background, the nature of the entity’s operation and its compliance with laws and regulations, including Anti Money Laundering (AML) and Know Your Client (KYC). Read more Valuation risks The focus here is on companies that report under International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and where cryptocurrencies are measured at fair value through profit and loss. Auditing the fair value of a cryptocurrency can be challenging as identifying its principal market, verifying the accuracy of pricing data and determining an arm’s length market price for related party transactions may not be straight forward. The following risks are considered by auditors. Inappropriate initial, and/or subsequent, measurement bases selected by the entity. Fair value of cryptocurrencies with observable inputs is inappropriately determined. Fair value of cryptocurrencies using significant unobservable inputs, including model-based and alternative approaches, is inappropriately determined. Cryptocurrencies held as intangibles are subject to impairment requirements. Auditors may evaluate the entity’s impairment analysis to validate accurate tracking of carrying values. This includes understanding the entity’s policies for monitoring the application of impairment triggers and the approach to tracking the carrying value of cryptocurrencies. Read more Ownership and Control Blockchain technology’s pseudo-anonymity can make it challenging to obtain audit evidence for sole ownership and control of digital wallets. Although the blockchain ledger may provide the public address of transacting parties and the value exchanged, it may not provide information to identify the counterparty. Certain blockchain operations can also obviate the need for third-party intermediaries for the execution of transactions, limiting the information available to prove ownership. Auditors are usually present to observe key and wallet generation ceremonies and then conclude on the operating effectiveness of key management lifecycle controls from wallet inception to the end of the audit period. They understand the number of private keys, who has access, and the controls over key management by performing the following non-exhaustive list of procedures. Review of documentation: for key generation and management during the audit period, and for any control testing procedures performed to conclude on their operating effectiveness. Review of key generation scripts and software: to determine the number of keys (or shards thereof) generated. Review of reconciliations and reconciliation controls: to determine whether breaks are effectively investigated and resolved. Review of blockchain transactions: for evidence that a third party may be using the wallet to transact. Review of confirmations and ISAE 3402 or US-style Type 1 SOC reports : for third-party custodians to assess the sufficiency of procedures performed by service auditors over the custodian and its control environment. Risks around accuracy of data Verifying the accuracy of data in the audit of cryptocurrencies is challenging due to the complexities of blockchain technology and the integration of data into financial systems. Auditors understand the following: IT General Controls (ITGCs): around nodes connected to the blockchain, other relevant systems and the wider IT environment. Accuracy and reliability of blockchain explorers: Public blockchain explorers have generally not been independently tested to validate completeness and accuracy of data. Some independently tested blockchain explorer services are available at a cost. When extracting data from a blockchain, auditors can run their own nodes on the blockchain or use third-party nodes. To decide, auditors may carefully consider the following factors. Running the Auditors' Own Node Benefits: More reliability due to direct data extraction from the blockchain, also ensuring data privacy and autonomy. Challenges: High data storage and bandwidth requirements, high maintenance, high costs such as electricity as well as potential independence issues. Using Third-party Infrastructure Nodes Benefits: Simplified node management, scalability, cost-effectiveness, and availability of support and maintenance services. Challenges: Reliance on third-party providers, centralization risks, privacy and security concerns, as well as limited customization options. Read more about specific risks Next Steps ICAEW’s future work on digital assets will focus on facilitating debate and building understanding of the impact of blockchain and digital assets on the profession. This includes collaborating with various stakeholders, such as accountants, regulators, policymakers, educators, technologists, and service providers. ICAEW's GenAI Accelerator The ICAEW GenAI Accelerator is your gateway to mastering the future of finance through a flexible, bite-sized online learning. Gain the skills to harness the power of GenAI, transforming the way you work in a way that suits you. Introductory courses are free for members. Find out more Enrol now Considerations for auditing cryptocurrencies What are the common risks in the audit of cryptocurrencies and what procedures can be performed to address these risks? Read the complete publication About us Who we are Governance ICAEW Annual and Special meetings Acting in the public interest What is chartered accountancy? Diversity and Inclusion Find a chartered accountant ICAEW Foundation Media Centre Job vacancies Contact us Contact us Make a complaint or give feedback ICAEW systems: status update UK offices Regions International offices CABA Partner with us Information services Bloomsbury Accounting and Tax Service Library How to use the Library and Information Service Company research Historical resources Library collection Legal ICAEW policies Modern Slavery Statement Privacy notices Cookies on icaew.com and my.icaew.com Reproducing ICAEW content Legal notice and terms of use Website links policy Chatbot MiaPlus fair usage policy Chatbot MiaPlus EULA Events All events A-Z of CPD courses by topic Webinars On demand webinars ICAEW Annual Conference ICAEW flagship events Events support © ICAEW 2026 The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, incorporated by Royal Charter RC000246 with registered office at Chartered Accountants’ Hall, Moorgate Place, London EC2R 6EA Home Read out this code to the operator. XXXXXX Cancel